---
layout: page
title: Shoukang Wang, also Fuqing
ref:  wangshoukang
lang: English
---

A brief biography of Professor Shoukang Wang

Shoukang Wang (1899-1975), also known as Fuqing, was from Qingzhong village, Wuyi County, Hebei Province. At a young age, he came to study at the Middle School Affiliated with Beijing Normal University. After passing the entrance exam with great extinction, he enrolled in the Chinese Department at Beijing Normal University, where he studied under the great Chinese Linguist Professor Jinxi Li. He continued graduate studies after obtaining his bachelor’s degree.

During the Northern Expedition, Mr. Fuqing Wang went south and joined the National Revolutionary Army. Retired from the army with the rank of lieutenant colonel,  he came back to Peking and became a lecturer at Peking Women’s Normal University, the Law and Business School of Peking University; then became an editor in the “Official Chinese Dictionary Codification Office”; a section chief of Peking Public Workers Bureau; and the Hall of People’s Education’s Movie Theatre Director in Jinan, Shandong province. Later, he was appointed the Education Director of the Tianjin and Shanghai Railway Bureau in the Ministry of Railways for the Republic of China. He moved to Nanking with his wife Duanqun Cao and eldest son Zhengzhong Wang. In 1937, the Sino-Japanese War broke out. Before the Massacre of Nanking, he retreated to Wuhan and then Changsha with his working unit. In 1938, he once again joined the army. His younger son Zhengfang Wang was born in Changsha. Army Colonel Shoukang Wang was appointed Head of the Field Work Corps in the Political Department of the Third Theatre. He promoted literacy among soldiers,  advocated for resistence against Japanese invasion, and led a Repertory Theatre touring through the war zones. He travelled all over southern Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Jiangxi, and northern Fujian provinces,  producing broadcasting programs, contributing editorials to "Frontline Daily". He said, "The most direct and effective way of awakening people is language; a great orator is usually a leader of the people".

After the end of WWII, the whole family moved back to Peking. Mr. Wang immediately went to the Social Services Department of Hebei Provincial Government, where he was in charge of refugee wellbeing, working on disaster relief among the many counties and towns in Hebei province. Later, Professor Jinxi Li established the “Standard Chinese Teacher Training Program" at Beijing Normal University, cultivating middle school teachers of Chinese. As a disciple of the master linguist, Shoukang Wang was appointed Associate Professor. There were all togetther two graduating calsses. To unify the Chinese language across the country, the Department of Education decided to publish the "Little Chinese Newspaper". Every Chinese character is annotated with ZhuYin, to help with correct pronounciation and speed up learning. The three day a week "Little Chinese Newspaper" began publishing in Peking. Mr. Shoukang Wang became the vice president, in charge of the business side of the newspaper.

In 1948, Mr. Wang was ordered to move the "Little Chinese Newspaper" to Taipei, Taiwan. The paper was renamed to "Chinese Daily". On the Return to China day the same year, "Chinese Daily" published its first issue. The first vice president of the paper is Mr. Shoukang Wang. "Chinese Daily" has been in circulation continuously until today. All the Taiwanese who went through the national elementary school once carefully read the "Chinese Daily". There is a saying in Taiwan, "I grew up reading the "Chinese Daily". How true!

There are a dozen graduates from the “Standard Chinese Teacher Training Program" at Beijing Normal University who went to Taiwan with Vice President Wang. They were scattered around many middle schools in Taiwan, teaching Chinese. They are Boyu Zhang, Changqing Feng, Jianbang Di, Qingxiang Gong et al, teaching for many years. All are steadfast eductors of Chinese for life. For many years, Professor Wang from Beijing Normal University, was the head of this big family.

Later, Taiwan Provincial Normal Institute established "Chinese Language Center". The center hired Professor Shoukang Wang as the Director for Standard Chinese Training program. The graduates include Liang Lin, Zhuxiao Fang, Xiaoyu Zhang, Tianchang Wang et al. They all became well-known scholars, Writers, making great contributions to the Chinese education in Taiwan.

In 1956, Professor Shiqiu Liang and Professor Shoukang Wang from Taiwan Normal University established the "Normal University Chinese Teaching Center". Professor Shoukang Wang became its first Director. The center aims to teach foreign students Chinese language. Built from the ground up, the center continues to this day, making outstanding achievement. More than half a century has passed, the reputation of "Normal University Chinese Teaching Center" has spread all over the world. It has long since established as the world famous Chinese teaching institute, having educated countless scholars of Chinese. 

In 1957, the Department of Education of Taiwan invited Professor Shoukang Wang to review the Chinese education in elementary and middle schools all over Taiwan, auditing classes, reading students essays, conducting Chinese training, holding teacher conferences, and making speech tours. His work load was very heavy. Professor Wang was a reknowned orator. People who listened to his speeches commented that, "No matter how dull the subject,  it becomes fascinating when it comes out of his mouth, like you are attending a play. When Mr. Fuqing Wang talked about something, people are not tired of it, even after the 10th time." A middle school principal from Kaohsiung followed Professor Shoukang Wang everywhere as he gave speeches. He didn't want to miss a single one. Professor Shoukang Wang said in his university class "Speeches and debates, "A strong sense of justice, rich modern knowledge, zealous spirit to serve, consist the soul of an outstanding orator."

That year on September 30th, Professor Wang made a speech in No. 2 Middle School in Taichung, then luncheon discussions, followed by another speech in the afternoon. Several teachers visited him in the evening. His blood pressure suddenly went up at midnight. He temporarily suffered loss of  speech. After emergency treatment, he recuperated. However, after less then three months of rest, he threw himself back into consultation of Chinese education in the various cities and counties in northern Taiwan. On January 19th, 1959, the consultation of Chinese education all over Taiwan was coming to conclusion,  Professor Wang made a brilliant and moving speech in Taipei Normal School. His blood pressue suddenly soared upward that same afternoon. He suffered another stroke and was sent to the hospital. He lost his ability to speak forever.

Professor Shoukang Wang passed away on April 12th, 1975. His lifelong pursuit is the great cause of "Language Unification".


